IFT 383 Fall 2019 Term B

Extra Credit Assignment

	The purpose of this script is to determine the time till the next holiday. It does not require user input as the script picks out the current date to use. The script only supports federal government holidays. Some ways to improve this script would be to add more holidays, as well as adapt the date to the day of the week it would fall on in the according year. 
	The first thing I did in the process of writing the script is coming up with an idea I would actually use in future. I settled on a script that would tell me when my work holidays are (since I contract with the government). I had a couple of ideas on how I might go about tracking the time between the dates. But after I found this website, I learned about using datetime to track the time delta which made the whole process much simpler. After the research the next step was to convert the holiday list to an array that I could sort through in python. I first created the dates as individual variables in case I needed to reference the later. After that I created the function to find the next holiday based on the first result that returned true. Finally, I calculated the time delta and printed that out to the user. 
	To go about testing the script, I used print statements to check if the dates I were getting were the correct ones. Once I determined it was working properly, I would remove the statements and then move on to the next step in the process. The main problem I faced was determining the time delta and printing that out to the user. I found one variable was a date object and one was a datetime object and that was throwing errors when i tried to calculate the delta. I fixed this by converting the datetime object to a date object. The last problem was to only display the information of the time delta that I needed. I was unable to use something like .day() to grab the day from the timedelta so I ended up splitting the string. From the print statements I had, I saw that the information I wanted and did not want was split by a comma. This made splitting the string very easy to do.  
	The advice I would give to my future self would be to read the python documentation on the date/datetime objects before using them.  A lot of the time I spent on this script was spent on finding the time delta between the dates. If I had read the documentation first, I would have had a much better idea of how to perform the calculation. Instead, I spent time wondering why it wasn’t working and trying my own ideas. 
 
	